# Domain Specific Language
1. What are DSL
2. Why do we need to use DSL
3. How to build a DSL

## 1. What are DSL
Domain Specific Languages are specific tools, good to solve a limited set of problems.

Some DSLs are intended to be used by programmers, and therefore are more technical, while others are intended to be used by someone who is not a programmer and therefore they use less geeky concepts and syntax.

Example:
  - DOT – A DSL to define graphs
>digraph graphname {   
yellow -> orange -> red;  
orange -> green;
}

  - SQL – databases
> SELECT MAX(TEMP_F), MIN(TEMP_F), AVG(RAIN_I), ID    
FROM STATS  
GROUP BY ID;  

  - ANTLR – lexer and parser definitions
> // Identifiers    
ID : [_]*[a-z][A-Za-z0-9_]* ;   
// Literals
INTLIT : '0'|[1-9][0-9]* ;  
DECLIT : '0'|[1-9][0-9]* '.' [0-9]+ ;   
STRINGLIT : '"' ~["]* '"' ;

  - OCL – model constraints
> context Meeting inv: self.end > self.start

  - BPEL – Business processes:  
  BPEL is a language to define the collaboration between web services to implement business processes. It used to be more popular when the world was going through its Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) phase.

### So what can we use DSLs for?
  - define commands to be executed: like *sed* or *gawk*
  - describe documents or some of their specific aspects: like *html*, *latex* or *CSS*
  - define rules or processes: like *BPMN* or *Actulus*

## 2. Why do we need to use DSL
Domain Specific Languages are great because:
- They let you *communicate with domain experts*. Do you write medical applications? Doctors do not understand when you talk about *arrays or for-loops*, but if you use a DSL that is about patients, *temperature measures* and *blood pressure* they could understand it better than you do
- They let you focus on the important concepts. They hide the implementation or the technical details and expose just the information that really matters.

By using DSLs you can very frequently:

- having domain experts read or write high level tests. Like requirements which are executable
- when doing co-development with domain experts developers can get feedback at a very fast pace

## 3. How to build a DSL
